Document Notification.navigate property (#43283)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/notification/navigate/index.md

---
title: "Notification: navigate property"
short-title: navigate
slug: Web/API/Notification/navigate
page-type: web-api-instance-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.Notification.navigate
---

{{APIRef("Web Notifications")}}{{securecontext_header}}{{SeeCompatTable}} {{AvailableInWorkers}}

The **`navigate`** read-only property of the {{domxref("Notification")}} interface contains the URL the user agent will navigate to when the user activates the notification.

This is the resolved value of the URL, if any, that was specified in the `navigate` option of the {{domxref("Notification.Notification", "Notification()")}} constructor or {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}}.

> When a notification with a navigation URL is activated by the user, the user agent navigates to the specified URL instead of firing an event on the notification. Normally, activating a non-persistent notification fires the {{domxref("Notification.click_event", "click")}} event on its {{domxref("Notification")}} object, and activating a persistent notification fires the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.notificationclick_event", "notificationclick")}} event on the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope")}}. Setting a navigation URL bypasses both, allowing notifications to direct users to a specific page without requiring an event handler.

Reviewer: Yes, this really clear thanks. I'm splitting it by sentence, because I find that easier to review. 

```suggestion
When a notification with a navigation URL is activated by the user, the user agent navigates to the specified URL instead of firing an event on the notification.
Normally, activating a non-persistent notification fires the {{domxref("Notification.click_event", "click")}} event on its {{domxref("Notification")}} object, and activating a persistent notification fires the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.notificationclick_event", "notificationclick")}} event on the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope")}}.
Setting a navigation URL bypasses both, allowing notifications to direct users to a specific page without requiring an event handler.
```

---
title: "Notification: navigate property"
short-title: navigate
slug: Web/API/Notification/navigate
page-type: web-api-instance-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.Notification.navigate
---

{{APIRef("Web Notifications")}}{{securecontext_header}}{{SeeCompatTable}} {{AvailableInWorkers}}

The **`navigate`** read-only property of the {{domxref("Notification")}} interface contains the URL the user agent will navigate to when the user activates the notification.

This is the resolved value of the URL, if any, that was specified in the `navigate` option of the {{domxref("Notification.Notification", "Notification()")}} constructor or {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}}.

When a notification with a navigation URL is activated by the user, the user agent navigates to the specified URL instead of firing an event on the notification.

> Normally, activating a non-persistent notification fires the {{domxref("Notification.click_event", "click")}} event on its {{domxref("Notification")}} object, and activating a persistent notification fires the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.notificationclick_event", "notificationclick")}} event on the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope")}}.

Reviewer: PS at this point you'd hopefully link through to persistent/non-persistant definitions. 
I'd be OK with merging this and doing the other work as a post process. We should minimally file and issue

---
title: "Notification: navigate property"
short-title: navigate
slug: Web/API/Notification/navigate
page-type: web-api-instance-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.Notification.navigate
---

> {{APIRef("Web Notifications")}}{{securecontext_header}}{{SeeCompatTable}} {{AvailableInWorkers}}

Reviewer: As an aside, the value of the navigate feature isn't all that clear but that info probably belongs in the place where the property is set.

What I mean is that it is easy to set a click handler, so it isn't obvious why it is worth providing the feature in the interface. I suspect that perhaps there are nuances to the  handling in the service worker case that aren't obvious.

> The **`navigate`** read-only property of the {{domxref("Notification")}} interface contains the URL the user agent will navigate to when the user activates the notification, as specified in the `navigate` option of the {{domxref("Notification.Notification", "Notification()")}} constructor or {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}}.

Reviewer: A bit clunky. Maybe:
```suggestion
The **`navigate`** read-only property of the {{domxref("Notification")}} interface contains the URL the user agent will navigate to when the user activates the notification.

This is the resolved value of the URL, if any, that was specified in the `navigate` option of the {{domxref("Notification.Notification", "Notification()")}} constructor or {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}}.
```

## Value

A string containing a {{glossary("URL")}}, or an empty string if no navigation URL has been set.

## Examples

### Creating a notification with a navigation URL

This example creates a notification that, when activated by the user, navigates to a specific page rather than firing a click event. Note that {{domxref("Notification.requestPermission_static", "Notification.requestPermission()")}} must be called from a user gesture such as a button click.

```html
<button id="notify">Notify me!</button>
```

```js
document.getElementById("notify").addEventListener("click", () => {
  Notification.requestPermission().then((permission) => {
    if (permission === "granted") {
      const notification = new Notification("New message from Alice", {
        body: "Hey, are you coming to the party tonight?",
        navigate: "/messages/alice",
      });

      // The navigate property reflects the resolved URL
      console.log(notification.navigate);
    }
  });
});

> ```

Author: Unfortunately, live examples aren't feasible here: cross-origin iframes on `live.mdnplay.dev` just won’t allow it.

### Using navigate with a service worker

> When using persistent notifications through a service worker, the `navigate` option allows the notification to open a page without needing to handle the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope.notificationclick_event", "notificationclick")}} event.

Reviewer: Ah, I get it - there is a different event in a worker. MIght be worth noting/highlighting that up in the intro.

```js
// Inside a service worker
self.registration.showNotification("Order shipped!", {
  body: "Your order #1234 has been shipped.",
  navigate: "/orders/1234",
});
```

> ### Checking the navigate property value

Reviewer: And in this context, are the other examples relevant?
